>> Kadi Kraman: Next up,
we're going to create a delete button.
So we're gonna look at some touchables.
So if you scroll to the bottom,
you see what we're going to build.
So we're going to have a DELETE
button to the right of our item.
And we're going to have this
confirmation alert if you press on it.
So, react-native comes
with a Button element and
it's almost never used.
I'll show you why,
cuz if I render this Button
title,
>> Kadi Kraman: It looks like this.
It looks slightly different on Android,
it basically renders a native-looking
button for each platform.
And you can't customize it at all,
you can't give it any kind of styles.
And this is why we only
tend to use this Button
element if we're just testing
out something locally.
But generally, for
production apps, you don't use it.
But the way that you actually
make something into a button in
react-native is you wrap it in
a Touchable or a Pressable components.
So, the most commonly used ones
are a TouchableOpacity and a Pressable.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
let me create some text here,
>> Kadi Kraman: Delete,
>> Kadi Kraman: And let's wrap this in
a Pressable.
So Pressable is kind of the new
generation of Touchable components.
Let me do an onPress,
>> Kadi Kraman: And this takes a function,
and we can console.log,
just console.log something.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
now when I press it, actually,
I wonder if I can open my terminal here.
I don't really use the VS Code terminal.
Terminal > New Terminal, there we go.
>> Kadi Kraman: So let's do yarn start.
All right, so
I have my terminal running here.
Yeah, there we go.
So this console.log gets executed.
And this is kinda the new
generation of Pressable components.
It has some additional
props that you can use.
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go.
You can have onHoverIn, HoverOut, onPress,
PressIn, PressOut.
You can also have passing
custom styles based on
whether the button is pressed or not.
But let's keep it simple and
use a TouchableOpacity.
And this is very handy and very popular,
because when you press something,
then it automatically applies an opacity.
I always find the default
opacity to be a bit intense.
So you can actually change this
with the activeOpacity prop.
So if we do, let's do 0.8, so 80%.
Yeah, there we go.
So there's still opacity,
but it's less intense.
>> Kadi Kraman: So we're gonna create
a button with a black background,
so let's add a colorBlack.
>> Kadi Kraman: So this is 000.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's put this button inside our item.
So it will be here.
There we go.
But they're rendered underneath
each other, which is inconvenient.
So, how do we render them in a row?
Well, we are in the world of flex, so
in our itemContainer,
let's do a flexDirection of row.
There you go.
Then they get rendered next to each other,
but we want the Delete button to be
at the end of the screen and
the copy to be on the other side.
So let's do a justifyContent,
and you want space between.
So this renders them with a space between.
>> Kadi Kraman: And also, to make sure
that these are centered, actually,
you can't see it that much because
they're not next to each other now, but
they're not actually centered.
So if we do alignItems center,
then they're actually
centered on the same line.
And now, let's do our space between.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right,
so this TouchableOpacity,
we want to give this a black background.
So let's do a style= and
add a button style here.
>> Kadi Kraman: And let's give this
a backgroundColor of theme.colorBlack.
>> Kadi Kraman: Obviously,
our text isn't showing up now, so
we'll need to make the text, right?
So for the text,
let's do a style=.
Let's create this buttonText
style to have the color
be theme.colorWhite.
Beautiful, and back to our button,
let's add some spacing.
So let's do a padding of 8.
And there you go.
And borderRadiuses tend
to look nice on buttons,
so let's do a borderRadius of 6.
So these numbers might look random,
but I tend to have a convention,
I guess, for myself,
where I only use even numbers.
So I tend to use 2, 4, 8,
12, 16, 24, 42.
And I think it's just
conventions from styling guides.
And then for the borderRadius, I found
that borderRadius 6 just tends to look
nice [LAUGH] in most cases, so
I tend to default for that.
So lastly, for our buttonText,
let's make it bold,
so let's do a fontWeight of bold.
>> Kadi Kraman: And let's make it
uppercase, so we can use textTransform.
>> Kadi Kraman: Uppercase to
make it an uppercase button.
And finally,
I find that the letters are a bit cramped.
So we can use letterSpacing to actually
add some spacing between the letters.
So if we do letterSpacing: 1, you can see
that it kind of breaks them apart a bit.
It looks a bit pretty.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, so
we've created this button now,
let's also add this alert confirmation.
So alert is a built-in
component in React Native, so
you can import alert from React Native.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's create a function that is inside our
React component, so
let's do const handleDelete.
So let's do an arrow function.
And again, whether you use arrow functions
or function functions, that is up to you.
But I'll just tell you the convention
that I am currently favoring,
which is that if you have components,
they will be function functions.
And then things inside the components,
like low utility functions,
I tend to use arrow functions.
So just my preference, but there's no
particular reason you have to follow it.
All right, so let's do an Alert.alert.
>> Kadi Kraman: Are you sure
you want to delete this?
And in our TouchableOpacity,
when we onPress, we can call this alert.
And this is a React thing, but if you
have a function that doesn't take any
arguments, all the arguments are the same
as what I passed in from the component.
You can actually omit this arrow function,
nonsense, and
just put handleDelete here and
it will call itself.
And now, if I do DELETE,
I'll get a little alert.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
this alert just has one text, but
we wanna give some subtext as well.
So we can pass in a second argument for
some subtext,
so let's do, it will be gone for good.
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go.
Now, we have some additional text here,
but
we don't have the confirmation buttons.
So we can pass in a third argument, and
this will be an array of options for
the buttons that you want to display.
So this will be an array of objects.
So the first one, let's say, text: Yes.
So yes, I do want to delete it.
Then we can give it an onPress, so if the
user chooses to delete it, what do we do?
Let's pass in an arrow function.
And then for now,
let's just do a console.log of Ok,
deleting, and
we're gonna fill this in later.
And we can also give it
a style to make it red, so
we can say that it is destructive.
And the second button we want is a Cancel
button, so let's do a text: Cancel,
>> Kadi Kraman: style: cancel.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
So now if I choose DELETE,
we actually get this Cancel and Yes.
So if I do Cancel, I don't get any logs.
And if I do Yes, it executes the function
that was passed in with the onPress.
So now, if I run this on a Android and
I do DELETE,
you actually notice that this alert
looks different than my iOS one.
And that's because it's recognitive,
it's using a platform-specific alert,
which is cool.
>> Speaker 2: I want to
customize the alert,
would I have to build a custom dialogue?
>> Kadi Kraman: Yes, yeah,
if you want to customize the alert,
you would build a custom dialogue.
It's not that tricky to do that, mostly,
you would do a full screen modal.
Do we do modals here?
We do actually go through
what a modal looks like.
You would do a full screen modal
with a transparent background, and
then you can do a small alert with
whatever styling that you want.
It's actually a good idea to commit
when you get to a point that
things are working.
Because then when you inevitably try
things that make things not to work,
you can always go back
in time to start again.